Project Summary -
The analysis of Google Play Store application aided to build most reliable and more interactive applications. This would be very useful for app developers to build an application focused on certain discussed category in this analysis. This analysis will help in building the application with precise and accurate objectives.

In the initial phase, we focused more on the problem statements and data cleaning, in order to ensure that we give them the best results out of our analysis. Our major challenge was data cleaning, In Data Cleaning, we have performed few steps to ensure the data quality such as removing NAN values. During the Data Cleaning step we found that 13.60% of reviews were NaN values, and even after merging both the data frames, we could not infer much in order to fill them. Thus, we had to drop them. The merged data frame of both play store and user reviews, had only 816 common apps. This is just 10% of the cleaned data, we could have given more valuable analysis if we had at least 70% - 80% of the data available in the merged data frames.

User Reviews had 42% of NaN values, which could have been used for developing an understanding of the category wise sentiments, which would help us to fill 13.60% NaN values of the Reviews column.

With the cleaned data, we have performed Exploratory Data Analysis to understand our dataset like number of installations for each category We explore the correlation between the size of the app and the version of Android on the number of installs and so on.

Our motive in whole project was to analyze the data and find out main components that affect users’ decision to download app. After completion of analysis I concluded that user prefer more of free apps. Most of the apps present in play store are more or less of same size so size doesn’t affect their decision much. It was found that Most of the apps that are present on the google play store have rating in between 4 and 5.Also it was observed that Maximum number of applications present in the dataset are of small size.

We found most popular category of apps on two basis - Number of Installs and Number of reviews. Personalization wins in former criteria whereas Sports wins in later criteria. In the problem statement we are given with 2 datasets i.e. play store and User review data set in the user review dataset it was observed that User Reviews had 42% of NaN values, which could have been used for developing an understanding of the category wise sentiments, which would help us to fill 13.60% NaN values of the Reviews column.

Sentiment subjectivity is not always proportional to sentiment polarity but in maximum number of case, shows a proportional behavior, when variance is too high or low. Sentiment Polarity is not highly correlated with Sentiment Subjectivity. The dataset contains immense possibilities to improve business values and have a positive impact. It is not limited to the problem taken into consideration for this project. Many other interesting possibilities can be explored using this dataset.

From the results and process we have implemented, we can conclude that we have achieved this group project objective which is analyzing the Google Play Store apps and determine trends of the Google Play Store and both of our research questions.


